Bellabeat case study

Bellabeat is a manufacturer for health-tech products for women. The company was founded in 2013 by Urška Sršen and Sando Mur and has expanded quickly since then. Bellabeat has an array of products/smart devices which help user track various health related parameters like activity, sleep, hydration level, menstrual cycle etc. which helps empower women with an understanding of their own health and habits. 

Here is the product line offered by Bellabeat:
1.	Bellabeat app: An application which provides user an insight into their health by providing data in various parameters like activity levels, sleep, menstrual cycle etc. The Bellabeat app usually must be paired with one of the following devices mentioned below.
2.	Leaf: A classic wellness tracker that can be worn as bracelet, necklace or clip and connects seamlessly with the Bellabeat app.
3.	Time: A fashionable smartwatch variant which can replace the conventional watch. Like its sibling Leaf, Time also helps users track various fitness parameters and connects seamlessly with the Bellabeat app. 
4.	Spring: Unlike Leaf and Time, Spring is a water bottle offered by Bellabeat which can help users track hydration levels. 

Act:
Business Task:
Analyze competitor data (Fitbit) to derive insights and identify potential opportunities for growth and provide recommendations for Bellabeat marketing strategy.

Key Stakeholders:
1.	Urška Sršen - Cofounder and Chief Creative Officer
2.	Sando Mur – Cofounder and Mathematician
3.	Bellabeat marketing analytics team – A team of data analysts responsible for collecting, analyzing and reporting data in order to help guide Bellabeat marketing strategy.

Prepare:
Details about the dataset: 
The data for this analysis will come from FitBit Fitness Tracker Data on Kaggle. These 18 datasets were generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03.12.2016–05.12.2016. Thirty eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring. Individual reports can be parsed by export session ID (column A) or timestamp (column B). Variation between output represents use of different types of Fitbit trackers and individual tracking behaviors / preferences.
Limitations of the data:
There are a few limitations to the data which include the following:
1.	The sample size is limited (only 33 participants).
2.	User information such as Sex and age is not included.
For this analysis the datasets for daily activity, daily calories, daily intensities, daily steps and weight log information, will be used.
R Studio was used to complete this analysis because of the many packages and data visualization features available to explore the data with.
Installing and Loading packages:
For this analysis we have imported “tidyverse”, “here”,” lubridate” and “dplyr” packages. The csv files were imported into R Studio and the data frames were created with simple names.

Process:

Cleaning/Manipulating the data:

Since the timestamp data is incorrect, it must be converted into appropriate data and time format and split separately into date and time.

We are ignoring for calories, intensities the daily data and taking hourly data for more precision. Another reason for ignoring the daily_calories and daily_intensities data is because the same data is available in the daily_activity data.
In this case study, I used Fitbit tracker data to determine various trends and theorize what was causing them. I was then able to develop an action-based plan based on those findings.
